Happy to have you all in the next CMB module on an Introduction to Biological Data Science in R. As you likely know, our module is run differently compared to the other journal club-style modules. This workshop module will be a comprehensive introduction to the emerging field of Data Science using the R programming language, including data analysis and visualization, with a particular focus on its utility for biological insight. You will be provided with biological datasets, and introduced to R packages and code used to examine data. In the first half of each class, students will be lectured on methods and shown demonstrations; in the second half of each class, students will use tools to analyze real data; laptop computers are required. Methods for filtering, sorting, and transforming data will be discussed along with visualization tools and options. Particular attention will be paid to code interpretation and data provenance methods by learning to generate reproducible data output files. For a final project, each student will be given a new dataset to analyze using the tools learned during the course, and will share findings with the class in a short oral presentation. Although specific datasets will be used for analysis in class, this workshop will provide broadly applicable tools to reproducibly analyze and visualize data across the biological sciences. Attached is one paper that I would encourage, but not require, you to read before class. Here is the [link](https://elifesciences.org/articles/43979). It is an opinion piece on how data science could be involved in several stages of the scientific method. Also, attached is the course syllabus, which we will review on the first day of class.  
  
Lastly, I'm attaching pre-class instructions on laptop and software requirements for class. Please read this carefully and perform the pre-class install instructions.
  
If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to ask. 

See you soon,
matt
(and Allie and Akshay, your Co-instructors/TAs for the class)